# Personal Reflection
Looking back on my older reflections, they were usually quite sad and upset at the nature of the task. I’ll try to keep this one a little happier, because I’m feeling a lot better about this task than some of the others. I really, really enjoyed doing this one—I’ve finally settled on the expectations of the course, and how far I should actually take something like this, which is great! I didn’t run into any major bugs after I released my character from the grid system, which was also really pleasing—past programs have _suffered_ from bugs like that.

My game, in its final state, should be pretty close to some of the others that will be submitted by the rest of the class. I think this is pretty cool, considering I’ve been programming using much more complicated paradigms, and doing the work of two people. While it’s a little annoying to be programming at a level where doing a group task doesn’t make sense, I’m pretty happy to work by myself here.

Throughout development I encountered a few challenges, which are mostly detailed in the development blog. Interestingly, I spent the most time in this game implementing enemies that move toward the player, because it was so convoluted (and also minimally documented), but I was glad to learn how to use it. Apple’s libraries for this sort of thing are really useful and made the development of this program a _breeze_, without it being too close to Unity’s drag-and-drop interface. I am worried, though, that the ease of programming in SpriteKit might cause BOSTES to ban it—I sincerely hope this isn’t the case.

I took the mark breakdown to be more of a guideline for how much time I should spend on each component. Implementing player deaths is clearly not as important as having enemies which move toward the player, and thus I spent time making sure I checked all of the boxes, but I didn’t weight them according to the marks. I hope, ultimately, that this doesn’t detract from my final mark. If it does, this is an area I should improve on in the future—I should probably have spent more time on components like the FightScene rather than on making enemies follow the player. Another general improvement would probably be in starting the project; I usually spend a few days waiting around with an empty Xcode project for inspiration to hit. I found that a good remedy for this was outlining the exact steps that needed to be taken in OmniFocus, and building it according to that outline.

In the end? I’m really satisfied with the results here. I didn’t burn out, I didn’t underdo it, I feel like I’ve done the work that was required of me to the standard that’s expected of me. So that’s all good :)